scratchpad.md, before:

# Scratchpad

Quick capture for build ideas, questions, and TODOs. Review periodically; move mature items to `dev/backlog/` or turn into PRDs.

---

## Background
<!-- Reference context: people, plans, company strategy. Expand into context/ or memory as it solidifies. -->

### People
- **Index**: ✓ Implemented. `people/{internal|customers|users}/[slug].md`; `people/index.md`; `arete people list/show/index`.
- **IDs / mapping**: ✓ Stable slug per person; link via:
  - **Person → meeting**: Meeting frontmatter or body lists `attendees: [person-id]` or link to people index.
  - **Person → project**: Project README or inputs list `stakeholders: [person-id]` or key contacts.
- Enables: "All meetings with Jane", "Projects where Sarah is stakeholder", and per-person memory (preferences, quotes).

### Plans
- **Day plan**: Today's focus, meetings, top 3 priorities. ✓ **daily-plan** skill outputs to chat; optional day file in Phase 2.
- **Weekly plan**: This week's goals, key meetings, themes. ✓ **week-plan** skill; `now/week.md` (was `resources/plans/week-*.md`).
- **Review**: Weekly review (what shipped, what slipped, learnings). ✓ **week-review** skill.

### Company (strategic pillars / outcomes)
- **Already in context**: `goals/strategy.md` (was `context/goals-strategy.md`) has Strategic Pillars, OKRs, and outcomes (e.g. bets and their outcomes).
- Keep pillars and outcomes there; reference from projects and roadmap work.

---

## Ideas
<!-- Quick ideas - date them so you know when they came up -->

- **Can Areté use [find-skills](https://skills.sh/vercel-labs/skills/find-skills) to find and recommend skills when a user is trying to accomplish something that is not built in?** — The Skills CLI (`npx skills find [query]`) lets users search the open agent skills ecosystem. When the router returns no match (or the user's intent isn't covered by a default skill), Areté could run `npx skills find <query>` and suggest installable skills (e.g. `npx skills add vercel-labs/skills@find-skills`). Explore: integrate find-skills workflow into skill routing / "no match" path, or add a dedicated "suggest skills" step in GUIDE mode.

- [2026-01-27] **Subagents for Competitive Research**: When analyzing 2+ competitors, spawn parallel subagents to research each competitor simultaneously. Each subagent gathers pricing, features, positioning, then main agent synthesizes into comparison matrix. Could extend to other parallel tasks (market research, multi-source discovery).

- [2026-01-27] **Mockup/Prototype Generation via Lovable MCP**: Create a skill that generates interactive prototypes from PRDs, discovery findings, or feature ideas. Use Lovable's MCP integration to build UI mockups directly from PM artifacts. Could also explore Vercel v0 as alternative.

---

## TODOs
<!-- Action items that don't belong to a specific project yet -->

- [ ] **Skill customization documentation**: Create user-facing docs explaining how to override/customize skills. Cover: (1) when to use default vs customize, (2) how to override just a template vs entire skill, (3) examples of common customizations, (4) how overrides merge with core. Should be part of skill onboarding flow.

---

## Notes
<!-- Quick notes, observations, things to remember -->

### YYYY-MM-DD
[Note content]

---

## Questions to Explore
<!-- Questions that came up that we should investigate -->

- [2026-02-05] **Generate Mockup skill dependencies**: We have a generate-mockup skill — do we need a dedicated tool or integration for Vercel v0 and/or Lovable? Or does the skill handle it sufficiently on its own?

---

## Future Enhancements (to build later)

### Tools/Agents/Models Configuration
- Config file for AI model preferences per task type
- Recommendations for when to use Plan mode vs regular mode
- Options for deep research vs quick tasks
- Let user customize model selection for: discovery, synthesis, PRD writing, etc.

### Product Coach (built-in)
*Added: 2026-02-05*

Some kind of built-in product coach that can:
- **Challenge**: Question assumptions, poke holes in strategy, ask "so what?" and "why this first?"
- **Sounding board**: Think through options out loud, rehearse arguments, stress-test narratives
- **Push**: Hold accountable to goals, call out drift, nudge when stuck or avoiding hard decisions

Form TBD: could be a **skill** ("talk to my coach"), a **tool** with phases (e.g. weekly check-in), a **persona** the agent adopts in certain modes, or a dedicated **coach mode** in the CLI. Might use context (goals, roadmap, memory) to stay relevant and push on the right things.

### Proactive Recommendations System
*Added: 2026-02-06*

A system where the agent can proactively recommend actions or prompt the user about workspace health. The system should track **timestamps** for key actions and recommend when things are stale.

**Timestamp-based checks (examples):**
- **Quarterly goals**: If `goals/quarter.md` (or equivalent) hasn't been updated in e.g. **4 months** → treat as a problem; agent should recommend setting/refreshing goals.
- **Calendar / meeting sync**: If the user hasn't synced (e.g. `arete pull` or calendar sync) in **1–2 days** → recommend they sync so meetings and context are current.
- **Weekly plan**: If there's no plan for the current week or it's very stale → nudge to update.

**Stored timestamps (concept):**
- Persist "last synced at", "last goals update", etc. (e.g. in workspace state or derived from file mtimes).
- Agent (or `arete status`) compares these to thresholds and surfaces recommendations.

**Triggers:**
- User asks a question → agent can include a gentle prompt ("By the way, your quarterly goals haven't been updated in 4 months…")
- Agent proactively suggests ("You haven't synced in a couple of days — want to run a quick pull?")
- Periodic check-in when user starts a session.

**Implementation:**
- Part of `arete status` (workspace health) with clear "last done" ages and thresholds.
- Lightweight checks (file timestamps, stored last-run times).
- User can ask "what should I do?" or "check my workspace health" to get recommendations.

---

### Background sync worker
*Added: 2026-02-06*

A **background worker** that syncs pullable sources (e.g. calendar, Fathom meetings) on an interval (e.g. **every 30 minutes**), so the workspace stays up to date without the user having to run `arete pull` manually.

- Run `arete pull` (or equivalent) for configured integrations on a schedule.
- Could be a long-running process (e.g. `arete daemon` or `arete sync --watch`) or a system cron/launchd job.
- Respect rate limits and credentials; log failures for user visibility.
- Complements the recommendation system: if background sync is enabled, "last synced" stays fresh; if not, agent can still recommend syncing after 1–2 days.

### People/Stakeholders Tracking
- ✓ **Foundation built**: people/, process-meetings (auto-populate from meeting attendees), meeting-prep (uses people when preparing). See **Background → People**.
- **Remaining (future)**: Per-person memory enrichment (what they care about, pet peeves); agent patterns for "CEO always asks about ROI".

### Package-Based Distribution (Shelved)
*Added: 2026-01-27*

Current approach: Fork + Upstream remote for updates. Works fine for single workspace.

**Future option:** Publish as npm package for cleaner distribution:
```
my-workspace/
├── node_modules/@arete/workspace/   # Framework as dependency
├── .cursor/rules/                   # Symlinked from package
├── context/                         # Your data
├── projects/                        # Your data
└── arete.config.js                  # Optional customization
```

**CLI commands:**
- `npx @arete/workspace init` - Scaffold workspace, copy rules
- `npx @arete/workspace update` - Update rules/templates
- `npx @arete/workspace sync` - Re-sync after package update

**Benefits:** Semantic versioning, `npm update` for upgrades, easy multi-workspace setup, simpler distribution.

**Trade-offs:** Adds Node.js dependency, more complex setup, symlink quirks.

**When to revisit:** If using across multiple clients/projects, or sharing with others.

---

### Meeting Automation (Fathom Integration)
*Added: 2026-02-03*

Explore automating meeting capture via Fathom API/webhook:
- Auto-add meeting summaries to `resources/meetings/` when meeting ends
- Include both summary and transcript
- Auto-populate meeting index
- Could trigger post-meeting: extract decisions → `memory/items/decisions.md`

**To investigate:**
- Fathom API capabilities and authentication
- Webhook setup for meeting end events
- File format for transcripts (separate file or embedded?)
- How to handle meeting metadata (attendees, duration, etc.)

---

### MCP Integrations
When MCP integrations are added, consider these use cases:

**Linear**
- Pull roadmap items and sync with `goals/strategy.md`
- Create issues from PRD requirements
- Track project status

**Notion**
- Pull/push documentation
- Sync meeting notes to project inputs
- Export PRDs to Notion pages

**Jira**
- Import tickets as inputs for discovery
- Create tickets from PRD requirements
- Track sprint progress

**Slack**
- Import meeting summaries as inputs
- Capture feedback from channels
- Post project updates

**Calendar**
- Pull meeting context before note-taking
- Suggest inputs to gather based on upcoming meetings
- Track stakeholder availability

**Figma**
- Pull design context for PRDs
- Reference designs in competitive analysis
- Link mockups to requirements

---

### Planning System: Automations, Integrations, and Proactive Use
*Added: 2026-02-06*

Once `goals/` and `now/` (quarter goals, week priorities) and skills exist, the system can use this data for:

**Proactive / agent-driven**
- **Quarter goals stale**: If no `goals/quarter.md` for current quarter (or file > 4 months old) → nudge "Set or refresh your quarter goals" (link quarter-plan skill). Integrate with Proactive Recommendations and `arete status`.
- **Week plan missing or stale**: If no `now/week.md` for current week (or empty/stale) → nudge "Plan your week" (week-plan skill). E.g. Monday morning or when user asks "what should I focus on?"
- **Alignment check**: Periodically (e.g. start of quarter or when goals/strategy.md changes) suggest "View goals alignment" (goals-alignment skill) so PM sees org vs PM goals and gaps.
- **Review prompts**: End of week → suggest week-review; end of quarter → suggest quarter review (and feed into next quarter-plan).

**Integrations (future)**
- **Calendar**: When building week plan, pull this week's meetings and suggest which days have deep-work blocks; surface "commitments due" from meeting notes or calendar.
- **Linear / Jira**: Map quarter goals (e.g. Q1-1, Q1-2) to initiatives or epics; show "progress toward Q1 goals" from completed issues. Optional: tag issues with goal ID.
- **Meetings (Fathom)**: After saving a meeting, suggest linking it to a quarter goal or week priority ("Did this advance a goal?") for traceability.
- **arete status**: Extend workspace health to include "Last quarter goals set", "Current week plan exists", "Goals alignment last viewed" (from file mtimes or optional metadata).

**Automations (lightweight)**
- **Archive old plans**: Optional script or `arete` subcommand: move past quarter file to `goals/archive/`, rename or archive past weeks so current week is easy to find.
- **Alignment snapshot**: When PM runs goals-alignment, optionally auto-save a snapshot to `goals/archive/alignment-YYYY-Qn.md` for history (e.g. once per quarter).

**Coach / accountability**
- Product Coach (see above) can use quarter and week plans to "push": "You said Q1-2 was a priority; nothing in this week's plan advances it," or "Your week plan has 5 deep-work items but only 2 free blocks."

---

### Plan → Autonomous Execution: Feedback for Improvement
*Added: 2026-02-06*

When going from a **plan** (e.g. PM Planning System plan) to **autonomous agent execution** (execute-prd with prd.json):

**What worked well**
- PRD in `dev/prds/{name}/prd.md` gives a single source of truth; prd.json tasks can reference it ("Reference PRD outputs for structure"). (PRDs for Areté features live in dev folder, not projects/active.)
- Atomic tasks (one TS change + test, then skills as separate tasks) keep each subagent scope small and typecheck/test reliable.
- Having a copy of prd.json in repo root when write to dev was restricted; then `cp` into autonomous folder with elevated permissions.

**Improvements to try**
- **Plan → PRD → prd.json in one flow**: When creating a plan, optionally output a "PRD summary" and a "suggested prd.json task list" so the maintainer can paste into autonomous without re-authoring. Or a small script/skill: "Convert plan section 7 (Implementation outline) into prd.json userStories."
- **Default file content in the repo**: For tasks that add DEFAULT_FILES with long content, consider checking in the desired README/template content as real files under a `workspace-structure-defaults/` or in the PRD project, so the subagent can read and paste instead of inventing. Reduces drift and ensures consistency.
- **First task includes test updates**: Including "add tests for new dirs/files" in the same task as workspace-structure changes keeps the codebase green and documents expected structure.
- **Branch name in plan**: If the plan specified a branch (e.g. `feature/pm-planning-system`), include it in the PRD or prd.json so execute-prd doesn't need a second step.
- **Execute-prd prerequisite check**: Before spawning, verify that the task description and acceptance criteria are sufficient for a fresh subagent (e.g. "contains path to edit" and "contains pass criteria"). Optional: light validation or prompt hint to subagent: "If the task references a file, open it first."

---

*Restored from git history (bd91c09). Paths updated for Phase 1 layout: goals/, now/, dev/prds/.*

Commit message:

review skills and do analysis for improvements

scratchpad.md, after:

# Scratchpad

Quick capture for build ideas, questions, and TODOs. Review periodically; move mature items to `dev/backlog/` or turn into PRDs.

---

## Background
<!-- Reference context: people, plans, company strategy. Expand into context/ or memory as it solidifies. -->

### People
- **Index**: ✓ Implemented. `people/{internal|customers|users}/[slug].md`; `people/index.md`; `arete people list/show/index`.
- **IDs / mapping**: ✓ Stable slug per person; link via:
  - **Person → meeting**: Meeting frontmatter or body lists `attendees: [person-id]` or link to people index.
  - **Person → project**: Project README or inputs list `stakeholders: [person-id]` or key contacts.
- Enables: "All meetings with Jane", "Projects where Sarah is stakeholder", and per-person memory (preferences, quotes).

### Plans
- **Day plan**: Today's focus, meetings, top 3 priorities. ✓ **daily-plan** skill outputs to chat; optional day file in Phase 2.
- **Weekly plan**: This week's goals, key meetings, themes. ✓ **week-plan** skill; `now/week.md` (was `resources/plans/week-*.md`).
- **Review**: Weekly review (what shipped, what slipped, learnings). ✓ **week-review** skill.

### Company (strategic pillars / outcomes)
- **Already in context**: `goals/strategy.md` (was `context/goals-strategy.md`) has Strategic Pillars, OKRs, and outcomes (e.g. bets and their outcomes).
- Keep pillars and outcomes there; reference from projects and roadmap work.

---

## Ideas
<!-- Quick ideas - date them so you know when they came up -->

- **Can Areté use [find-skills](https://skills.sh/vercel-labs/skills/find-skills) to find and recommend skills when a user is trying to accomplish something that is not built in?** — The Skills CLI (`npx skills find [query]`) lets users search the open agent skills ecosystem. When the router returns no match (or the user's intent isn't covered by a default skill), Areté could run `npx skills find <query>` and suggest installable skills (e.g. `npx skills add vercel-labs/skills@find-skills`). Explore: integrate find-skills workflow into skill routing / "no match" path, or add a dedicated "suggest skills" step in GUIDE mode.

- [2026-02-10] **find-skills product decision (deferred)** — After skills.sh evaluation (5 runtime skills evaluated, all kept native), decide: (a) add find-skills to default skill set so users can discover OSS skills via agent, (b) document only in `runtime/skills/README.md` ("run `npx skills find` to discover more skills"), or (c) leave for later. Recommendation from evaluation: install as optional skill (`arete skill install vercel-labs/skills --skill find-skills`), document in README under "Adding new capabilities," but don't ship in core 19 skills. Useful for discovery, not for core workflow replacement.

- [2026-01-27] **Subagents for Competitive Research**: When analyzing 2+ competitors, spawn parallel subagents to research each competitor simultaneously. Each subagent gathers pricing, features, positioning, then main agent synthesizes into comparison matrix. Could extend to other parallel tasks (market research, multi-source discovery).

- [2026-01-27] **Mockup/Prototype Generation via Lovable MCP**: Create a skill that generates interactive prototypes from PRDs, discovery findings, or feature ideas. Use Lovable's MCP integration to build UI mockups directly from PM artifacts. Could also explore Vercel v0 as alternative.

---

## TODOs
<!-- Action items that don't belong to a specific project yet -->

- [ ] **Skill customization documentation**: Create user-facing docs explaining how to override/customize skills. Cover: (1) when to use default vs customize, (2) how to override just a template vs entire skill, (3) examples of common customizations, (4) how overrides merge with core. Should be part of skill onboarding flow.

---

## Notes
<!-- Quick notes, observations, things to remember -->

### YYYY-MM-DD
[Note content]

---

## Questions to Explore
<!-- Questions that came up that we should investigate -->

- [2026-02-05] **Generate Mockup skill dependencies**: We have a generate-mockup skill — do we need a dedicated tool or integration for Vercel v0 and/or Lovable? Or does the skill handle it sufficiently on its own?

---

## Future Enhancements (to build later)

### Tools/Agents/Models Configuration
- Config file for AI model preferences per task type
- Recommendations for when to use Plan mode vs regular mode
- Options for deep research vs quick tasks
- Let user customize model selection for: discovery, synthesis, PRD writing, etc.

### Product Coach (built-in)
*Added: 2026-02-05*

Some kind of built-in product coach that can:
- **Challenge**: Question assumptions, poke holes in strategy, ask "so what?" and "why this first?"
- **Sounding board**: Think through options out loud, rehearse arguments, stress-test narratives
- **Push**: Hold accountable to goals, call out drift, nudge when stuck or avoiding hard decisions

Form TBD: could be a **skill** ("talk to my coach"), a **tool** with phases (e.g. weekly check-in), a **persona** the agent adopts in certain modes, or a dedicated **coach mode** in the CLI. Might use context (goals, roadmap, memory) to stay relevant and push on the right things.

### Proactive Recommendations System
*Added: 2026-02-06*

A system where the agent can proactively recommend actions or prompt the user about workspace health. The system should track **timestamps** for key actions and recommend when things are stale.

**Timestamp-based checks (examples):**
- **Quarterly goals**: If `goals/quarter.md` (or equivalent) hasn't been updated in e.g. **4 months** → treat as a problem; agent should recommend setting/refreshing goals.
- **Calendar / meeting sync**: If the user hasn't synced (e.g. `arete pull` or calendar sync) in **1–2 days** → recommend they sync so meetings and context are current.
- **Weekly plan**: If there's no plan for the current week or it's very stale → nudge to update.

**Stored timestamps (concept):**
- Persist "last synced at", "last goals update", etc. (e.g. in workspace state or derived from file mtimes).
- Agent (or `arete status`) compares these to thresholds and surfaces recommendations.

**Triggers:**
- User asks a question → agent can include a gentle prompt ("By the way, your quarterly goals haven't been updated in 4 months…")
- Agent proactively suggests ("You haven't synced in a couple of days — want to run a quick pull?")
- Periodic check-in when user starts a session.

**Implementation:**
- Part of `arete status` (workspace health) with clear "last done" ages and thresholds.
- Lightweight checks (file timestamps, stored last-run times).
- User can ask "what should I do?" or "check my workspace health" to get recommendations.

---

### Background sync worker
*Added: 2026-02-06*

A **background worker** that syncs pullable sources (e.g. calendar, Fathom meetings) on an interval (e.g. **every 30 minutes**), so the workspace stays up to date without the user having to run `arete pull` manually.

- Run `arete pull` (or equivalent) for configured integrations on a schedule.
- Could be a long-running process (e.g. `arete daemon` or `arete sync --watch`) or a system cron/launchd job.
- Respect rate limits and credentials; log failures for user visibility.
- Complements the recommendation system: if background sync is enabled, "last synced" stays fresh; if not, agent can still recommend syncing after 1–2 days.

### People/Stakeholders Tracking
- ✓ **Foundation built**: people/, process-meetings (auto-populate from meeting attendees), meeting-prep (uses people when preparing). See **Background → People**.
- **Remaining (future)**: Per-person memory enrichment (what they care about, pet peeves); agent patterns for "CEO always asks about ROI".

### Package-Based Distribution (Shelved)
*Added: 2026-01-27*

Current approach: Fork + Upstream remote for updates. Works fine for single workspace.

**Future option:** Publish as npm package for cleaner distribution:
```
my-workspace/
├── node_modules/@arete/workspace/   # Framework as dependency
├── .cursor/rules/                   # Symlinked from package
├── context/                         # Your data
├── projects/                        # Your data
└── arete.config.js                  # Optional customization
```

**CLI commands:**
- `npx @arete/workspace init` - Scaffold workspace, copy rules
- `npx @arete/workspace update` - Update rules/templates
- `npx @arete/workspace sync` - Re-sync after package update

**Benefits:** Semantic versioning, `npm update` for upgrades, easy multi-workspace setup, simpler distribution.

**Trade-offs:** Adds Node.js dependency, more complex setup, symlink quirks.

**When to revisit:** If using across multiple clients/projects, or sharing with others.

---

### Meeting Automation (Fathom Integration)
*Added: 2026-02-03*

Explore automating meeting capture via Fathom API/webhook:
- Auto-add meeting summaries to `resources/meetings/` when meeting ends
- Include both summary and transcript
- Auto-populate meeting index
- Could trigger post-meeting: extract decisions → `memory/items/decisions.md`

**To investigate:**
- Fathom API capabilities and authentication
- Webhook setup for meeting end events
- File format for transcripts (separate file or embedded?)
- How to handle meeting metadata (attendees, duration, etc.)

---

### MCP Integrations
When MCP integrations are added, consider these use cases:

**Linear**
- Pull roadmap items and sync with `goals/strategy.md`
- Create issues from PRD requirements
- Track project status

**Notion**
- Pull/push documentation
- Sync meeting notes to project inputs
- Export PRDs to Notion pages

**Jira**
- Import tickets as inputs for discovery
- Create tickets from PRD requirements
- Track sprint progress

**Slack**
- Import meeting summaries as inputs
- Capture feedback from channels
- Post project updates

**Calendar**
- Pull meeting context before note-taking
- Suggest inputs to gather based on upcoming meetings
- Track stakeholder availability

**Figma**
- Pull design context for PRDs
- Reference designs in competitive analysis
- Link mockups to requirements

---

### Planning System: Automations, Integrations, and Proactive Use
*Added: 2026-02-06*

Once `goals/` and `now/` (quarter goals, week priorities) and skills exist, the system can use this data for:

**Proactive / agent-driven**
- **Quarter goals stale**: If no `goals/quarter.md` for current quarter (or file > 4 months old) → nudge "Set or refresh your quarter goals" (link quarter-plan skill). Integrate with Proactive Recommendations and `arete status`.
- **Week plan missing or stale**: If no `now/week.md` for current week (or empty/stale) → nudge "Plan your week" (week-plan skill). E.g. Monday morning or when user asks "what should I focus on?"
- **Alignment check**: Periodically (e.g. start of quarter or when goals/strategy.md changes) suggest "View goals alignment" (goals-alignment skill) so PM sees org vs PM goals and gaps.
- **Review prompts**: End of week → suggest week-review; end of quarter → suggest quarter review (and feed into next quarter-plan).

**Integrations (future)**
- **Calendar**: When building week plan, pull this week's meetings and suggest which days have deep-work blocks; surface "commitments due" from meeting notes or calendar.
- **Linear / Jira**: Map quarter goals (e.g. Q1-1, Q1-2) to initiatives or epics; show "progress toward Q1 goals" from completed issues. Optional: tag issues with goal ID.
- **Meetings (Fathom)**: After saving a meeting, suggest linking it to a quarter goal or week priority ("Did this advance a goal?") for traceability.
- **arete status**: Extend workspace health to include "Last quarter goals set", "Current week plan exists", "Goals alignment last viewed" (from file mtimes or optional metadata).

**Automations (lightweight)**
- **Archive old plans**: Optional script or `arete` subcommand: move past quarter file to `goals/archive/`, rename or archive past weeks so current week is easy to find.
- **Alignment snapshot**: When PM runs goals-alignment, optionally auto-save a snapshot to `goals/archive/alignment-YYYY-Qn.md` for history (e.g. once per quarter).

**Coach / accountability**
- Product Coach (see above) can use quarter and week plans to "push": "You said Q1-2 was a priority; nothing in this week's plan advances it," or "Your week plan has 5 deep-work items but only 2 free blocks."

---

### Plan → Autonomous Execution: Feedback for Improvement
*Added: 2026-02-06*

When going from a **plan** (e.g. PM Planning System plan) to **autonomous agent execution** (execute-prd with prd.json):

**What worked well**
- PRD in `dev/prds/{name}/prd.md` gives a single source of truth; prd.json tasks can reference it ("Reference PRD outputs for structure"). (PRDs for Areté features live in dev folder, not projects/active.)
- Atomic tasks (one TS change + test, then skills as separate tasks) keep each subagent scope small and typecheck/test reliable.
- Having a copy of prd.json in repo root when write to dev was restricted; then `cp` into autonomous folder with elevated permissions.

**Improvements to try**
- **Plan → PRD → prd.json in one flow**: When creating a plan, optionally output a "PRD summary" and a "suggested prd.json task list" so the maintainer can paste into autonomous without re-authoring. Or a small script/skill: "Convert plan section 7 (Implementation outline) into prd.json userStories."
- **Default file content in the repo**: For tasks that add DEFAULT_FILES with long content, consider checking in the desired README/template content as real files under a `workspace-structure-defaults/` or in the PRD project, so the subagent can read and paste instead of inventing. Reduces drift and ensures consistency.
- **First task includes test updates**: Including "add tests for new dirs/files" in the same task as workspace-structure changes keeps the codebase green and documents expected structure.
- **Branch name in plan**: If the plan specified a branch (e.g. `feature/pm-planning-system`), include it in the PRD or prd.json so execute-prd doesn't need a second step.
- **Execute-prd prerequisite check**: Before spawning, verify that the task description and acceptance criteria are sufficient for a fresh subagent (e.g. "contains path to edit" and "contains pass criteria"). Optional: light validation or prompt hint to subagent: "If the task references a file, open it first."

---

*Restored from git history (bd91c09). Paths updated for Phase 1 layout: goals/, now/, dev/prds/.*
