packages/runtime/skills/rapid-context-dump/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: rapid-context-dump
description: Quickly bootstrap workspace context from docs, website, or pasted content with review-before-promote workflow
category: core
work_type: activation
requires_briefing: false
triggers:
  - "dump my context"
  - "import my docs"
  - "bootstrap context"
  - "ingest my content"
  - "extract context from"
  - "read my website"
  - "process my docs"
---

# Rapid Context Dump Skill

A reusable capability that converts user-provided inputs (pasted text, folder contents, website URL) into reviewable draft context artifacts. Supports standalone use or invocation from the getting-started flow.

## When to Use

- User has existing docs/content they want to import
- User wants to bootstrap context from their company website
- Called from getting-started skill Path A
- User says "dump my context" or "import my docs"

## When NOT to Use

- User wants to import meeting history (use `seed-context` tool)
- User wants guided Q&A to build context (use `getting-started` skill Path B)
- Context files already exist and are populated

---

## Workflow Overview

```
Consent → Input Collection → Extraction → Draft Generation → Review → Promotion
```

**Total time**: 5-15 minutes depending on input volume

---

## Phase 1: Consent Checkpoint

Before ingesting any content, show consent and guidance:

```
Before we begin, a few important notes:

⚠️ **What will be processed:**
- Text you paste or files you provide will be read and analyzed
- Content is processed locally in your workspace
- Generated drafts are saved to your workspace for review

⚠️ **What to exclude:**
- Confidential/sensitive documents (financials, legal, HR)
- Content you don't have rights to share
- Large binary files (images, videos) — not supported

✓ Ready to proceed?
```

Wait for user confirmation before continuing.

---

## Phase 2: Input Collection

Collect context from one or more input types. Use fallback matrix when inputs are unavailable.

### Input Types (Priority Order)

| Priority | Input | How to Collect |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | **Pasted text** | Ask user to paste content directly into chat |
| 2 | **Folder** | Read files from `inputs/onboarding-dump/` |
| 3 | **Website URL** | Fetch and parse company website |
| 4 | **Chat upload** | If supported by environment (optional) |

### Input Prompts

**For pasted text:**
```
Paste your content below. This could be:
- Strategy docs or OKRs
- Product descriptions
- User research notes
- Competitive analysis
- Anything that describes your business/product

I'll extract the key information and create draft context files.
```

**For folder:**
```
I'll check inputs/onboarding-dump/ for files to process.

Supported formats: .md, .txt, .pdf (text only), .docx (text only)

Drop your files there and let me know when ready.
```

**For website:**
```
What's your company website URL?

I'll extract:
- Company description and value proposition
- Product/service information
- Target audience signals
- Any public strategy/positioning
```

### Fallback Matrix

| Situation | Fallback |
|---|---|
| User has no structured content | Prompt for website URL |
| Folder empty or files unsupported | Continue with pasted text + URL |
| Website inaccessible or low signal | Continue with folder/pasted text |
| Chat upload unsupported | Route to folder or paste path |

**Key principle**: Never block. If one input fails, gracefully continue with others.

---

## Phase 3: Extraction

Process collected inputs and extract structured information.

### Extraction Targets

From inputs, attempt to extract:

1. **Business Overview**
   - Company name and description
   - Mission/vision
   - Value proposition
   - Industry/market

2. **Products/Services**
   - Product names and descriptions
   - Key features
   - Pricing model (if public)

3. **Users/Personas**
   - Target user types
   - User problems/needs
   - User segments

4. **Goals/Strategy**
   - Stated objectives
   - Key metrics mentioned
   - Strategic priorities

5. **Competitive Landscape**
   - Competitors mentioned
   - Differentiation points
   - Market positioning

6. **Domain Hints** (for Contract v1)
   - Company domains extracted from URLs
   - Industry signals
   - Technology stack mentions

### Extraction Guidelines

- **Be conservative**: Only extract what's clearly stated
- **Cite sources**: Note which input each piece came from
- **Flag uncertainty**: Mark inferred vs stated information
- **Preserve quotes**: Keep key phrases verbatim when valuable

---

## Phase 4: Draft Generation

Generate draft context files with explicit draft markers.

### Draft File Format

Each generated file must include:

```markdown
<!-- 
[DRAFT] Generated by rapid-context-dump
Source: [input type - pasted/folder/website]
Generated: [ISO timestamp]
Status: PENDING REVIEW - Do not use until promoted
-->

# [Title]

[Content...]

---

## Source References

- [Source 1]: "[relevant excerpt]"
- [Source 2]: "[relevant excerpt]"
```

### Files to Generate

| File | Location | Required |
|---|---|---|
| Business Overview | `context/business-overview.md` | Yes |
| Users/Personas | `context/users-personas.md` | If extractable |
| Products/Services | `context/products-services.md` | If extractable |
| Strategy Summary | `goals/strategy.md` | If extractable |
| Competitive Landscape | `context/competitive-landscape.md` | If extractable |

### Draft Strategy Summary

Also generate a one-page summary:

```markdown
<!-- [DRAFT] Strategy Summary -->

# Strategy Summary

## Company
[1-2 sentences]

## Product
[1-2 sentences]

## Users
[1-2 sentences]

## Goals
[Bullet list]

## Key Insights
[2-3 observations from the content]

## Gaps Identified
[What's missing that should be added manually]
```

Save to: `inputs/onboarding-dump/draft-strategy-summary.md`

---

## Phase 5: Review Checklist

Present generated drafts with review checklist:

```
I've generated the following draft files:

**Context Files:**
- [ ] context/business-overview.md — Review accuracy
- [ ] context/users-personas.md — Review completeness
- [ ] context/products-services.md — Review accuracy
- [ ] goals/strategy.md — Review priorities

**Summary:**
- [ ] inputs/onboarding-dump/draft-strategy-summary.md

**Review Checklist:**
1. Open each file and verify accuracy
2. Remove or correct any misinterpretations
3. Add missing information you know
4. Remove the [DRAFT] header when satisfied

**To promote a file:** Edit it, remove the draft header, save.

Would you like me to walk through any file with you?
```

---

## Phase 6: Promotion

Drafts become canonical only after user review:

**Promotion criteria:**
- User has opened/reviewed the file
- User confirms content is accurate
- [DRAFT] header is removed

**Promotion options:**

1. **Manual promotion**: User edits file, removes header, saves
2. **Guided promotion**: User says "promote business-overview" and agent removes header

```
To promote: "promote [filename]" or edit the file and remove the [DRAFT] header.

Files remain drafts until you explicitly promote them.
```

After all files are saved (draft or promoted), run `arete index` to make the context immediately searchable by brief, meeting-prep, and other skills.

---

## Contract v1 Compliance

This skill emits domain hints for downstream People Intelligence:

| Contract Field | Emitted? | Location |
|---|---|---|
| `context.companyDomains[]` | Yes | Extracted from website URL |
| `context.sourceHints[]` | Yes | Embedded in draft source references |
| `context.artifactRefs[]` | Yes | List of generated draft files |

**Domain hint extraction:**
- From website URL: extract domain (e.g., `acme.com`)
- From email addresses in content: extract domains
- From mentioned URLs: extract relevant domains

Store hints in `context/domain-hints.md`:
```markdown
---
domains:
  - acme.com
  - acme.io
extracted_from:
  - website
  - pasted_content
generated: [ISO timestamp]
---

# Domain Hints

Automatically extracted domain signals for downstream use.
```

---

## Error Handling

| Error | Response |
|---|---|
| Website unreachable | "Couldn't reach [URL]. Let's continue with other inputs." |
| Folder empty | "No supported files found. Try pasting content directly." |
| Extraction yielded nothing | "Couldn't extract structured info. Let me ask you directly instead." (Fall back to guided input) |
| File write failed | "Couldn't save to [path]. Check workspace permissions." |

---

## Related Skills

- `getting-started` — Parent flow that invokes this skill (Path A)
- `seed-context` — For historical data import from integrations
- `synthesize` — For deeper analysis after context is populated

---

## Tips

1. **Quality over quantity**: Better to extract less accurately than more incorrectly
2. **Preserve user's words**: Don't over-paraphrase; their terminology matters
3. **Flag gaps explicitly**: "I couldn't find X" is valuable information
4. **Stay focused**: Extract what helps PM work, not everything possible

Commit message:

fix(router): improve skill routing for content ingestion queries
- Fix trigger matching to tokenize phrases consistently with queries
  Previously, triggers like 'include in context' failed to match because
  stop words ('in') were stripped from queries but not from trigger phrases

- Require minimum 2-token overlap for description-based scoring
  Single-word matches caused false positives (e.g., 'team' in query matching
  'dev team' in prepare-meeting-agenda description)

- Expand rapid-context-dump triggers with natural language phrasings
  Added: 'add to context', 'save this document', 'where should I put', etc.

- Expand capture-conversation triggers for slack threads
  Added: 'save slack thread', 'save slack', 'capture slack'

- Add comprehensive routing tests
  - Content ingestion query tests (the two originally failing queries)
  - Pattern-based variations to prevent overfitting
  - Negative assertions for false-positive prevention
  - Disambiguation tests between related skills
  - Single-word regression tests (discovery, roadmap, synthesize)

Fixes routing for:
- 'I have input data to add about Reserve...' → rapid-context-dump
- 'save a lengthy AI vision and roadmap document...' → rapid-context-dump
- 'save this slack thread' → capture-conversation

packages/runtime/skills/rapid-context-dump/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: rapid-context-dump
description: Quickly bootstrap workspace context from docs, website, or pasted content with review-before-promote workflow
category: core
work_type: activation
requires_briefing: false
triggers:
  - "dump my context"
  - "import my docs"
  - "bootstrap context"
  - "ingest my content"
  - "extract context from"
  - "read my website"
  - "process my docs"
  # Natural language phrasings for adding/saving content
  - "add to context"
  - "add this to context"
  - "include in context"
  - "save this document"
  - "save and summarize"
  - "where should I put"
  - "where to put"
  - "where to add"
  - "add input"
  - "input data"
  - "import content"
  - "add to workspace"
---

# Rapid Context Dump Skill

A reusable capability that converts user-provided inputs (pasted text, folder contents, website URL) into reviewable draft context artifacts. Supports standalone use or invocation from the getting-started flow.

## When to Use

- User has existing docs/content they want to import
- User wants to bootstrap context from their company website
- Called from getting-started skill Path A
- User says "dump my context" or "import my docs"

## When NOT to Use

- User wants to import meeting history (use `seed-context` tool)
- User wants guided Q&A to build context (use `getting-started` skill Path B)
- Context files already exist and are populated

---

## Workflow Overview

```
Consent → Input Collection → Extraction → Draft Generation → Review → Promotion
```

**Total time**: 5-15 minutes depending on input volume

---

## Phase 1: Consent Checkpoint

Before ingesting any content, show consent and guidance:

```
Before we begin, a few important notes:

⚠️ **What will be processed:**
- Text you paste or files you provide will be read and analyzed
- Content is processed locally in your workspace
- Generated drafts are saved to your workspace for review

⚠️ **What to exclude:**
- Confidential/sensitive documents (financials, legal, HR)
- Content you don't have rights to share
- Large binary files (images, videos) — not supported

✓ Ready to proceed?
```

Wait for user confirmation before continuing.

---

## Phase 2: Input Collection

Collect context from one or more input types. Use fallback matrix when inputs are unavailable.

### Input Types (Priority Order)

| Priority | Input | How to Collect |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | **Pasted text** | Ask user to paste content directly into chat |
| 2 | **Folder** | Read files from `inputs/onboarding-dump/` |
| 3 | **Website URL** | Fetch and parse company website |
| 4 | **Chat upload** | If supported by environment (optional) |

### Input Prompts

**For pasted text:**
```
Paste your content below. This could be:
- Strategy docs or OKRs
- Product descriptions
- User research notes
- Competitive analysis
- Anything that describes your business/product

I'll extract the key information and create draft context files.
```

**For folder:**
```
I'll check inputs/onboarding-dump/ for files to process.

Supported formats: .md, .txt, .pdf (text only), .docx (text only)

Drop your files there and let me know when ready.
```

**For website:**
```
What's your company website URL?

I'll extract:
- Company description and value proposition
- Product/service information
- Target audience signals
- Any public strategy/positioning
```

### Fallback Matrix

| Situation | Fallback |
|---|---|
| User has no structured content | Prompt for website URL |
| Folder empty or files unsupported | Continue with pasted text + URL |
| Website inaccessible or low signal | Continue with folder/pasted text |
| Chat upload unsupported | Route to folder or paste path |

**Key principle**: Never block. If one input fails, gracefully continue with others.

---

## Phase 3: Extraction

Process collected inputs and extract structured information.

### Extraction Targets

From inputs, attempt to extract:

1. **Business Overview**
   - Company name and description
   - Mission/vision
   - Value proposition
   - Industry/market

2. **Products/Services**
   - Product names and descriptions
   - Key features
   - Pricing model (if public)

3. **Users/Personas**
   - Target user types
   - User problems/needs
   - User segments

4. **Goals/Strategy**
   - Stated objectives
   - Key metrics mentioned
   - Strategic priorities

5. **Competitive Landscape**
   - Competitors mentioned
   - Differentiation points
   - Market positioning

6. **Domain Hints** (for Contract v1)
   - Company domains extracted from URLs
   - Industry signals
   - Technology stack mentions

### Extraction Guidelines

- **Be conservative**: Only extract what's clearly stated
- **Cite sources**: Note which input each piece came from
- **Flag uncertainty**: Mark inferred vs stated information
- **Preserve quotes**: Keep key phrases verbatim when valuable

---

## Phase 4: Draft Generation

Generate draft context files with explicit draft markers.

### Draft File Format

Each generated file must include:

```markdown
<!-- 
[DRAFT] Generated by rapid-context-dump
Source: [input type - pasted/folder/website]
Generated: [ISO timestamp]
Status: PENDING REVIEW - Do not use until promoted
-->

# [Title]

[Content...]

---

## Source References

- [Source 1]: "[relevant excerpt]"
- [Source 2]: "[relevant excerpt]"
```

### Files to Generate

| File | Location | Required |
|---|---|---|
| Business Overview | `context/business-overview.md` | Yes |
| Users/Personas | `context/users-personas.md` | If extractable |
| Products/Services | `context/products-services.md` | If extractable |
| Strategy Summary | `goals/strategy.md` | If extractable |
| Competitive Landscape | `context/competitive-landscape.md` | If extractable |

### Draft Strategy Summary

Also generate a one-page summary:

```markdown
<!-- [DRAFT] Strategy Summary -->

# Strategy Summary

## Company
[1-2 sentences]

## Product
[1-2 sentences]

## Users
[1-2 sentences]

## Goals
[Bullet list]

## Key Insights
[2-3 observations from the content]

## Gaps Identified
[What's missing that should be added manually]
```

Save to: `inputs/onboarding-dump/draft-strategy-summary.md`

---

## Phase 5: Review Checklist

Present generated drafts with review checklist:

```
I've generated the following draft files:

**Context Files:**
- [ ] context/business-overview.md — Review accuracy
- [ ] context/users-personas.md — Review completeness
- [ ] context/products-services.md — Review accuracy
- [ ] goals/strategy.md — Review priorities

**Summary:**
- [ ] inputs/onboarding-dump/draft-strategy-summary.md

**Review Checklist:**
1. Open each file and verify accuracy
2. Remove or correct any misinterpretations
3. Add missing information you know
4. Remove the [DRAFT] header when satisfied

**To promote a file:** Edit it, remove the draft header, save.

Would you like me to walk through any file with you?
```

---

## Phase 6: Promotion

Drafts become canonical only after user review:

**Promotion criteria:**
- User has opened/reviewed the file
- User confirms content is accurate
- [DRAFT] header is removed

**Promotion options:**

1. **Manual promotion**: User edits file, removes header, saves
2. **Guided promotion**: User says "promote business-overview" and agent removes header

```
To promote: "promote [filename]" or edit the file and remove the [DRAFT] header.

Files remain drafts until you explicitly promote them.
```

After all files are saved (draft or promoted), run `arete index` to make the context immediately searchable by brief, meeting-prep, and other skills.

---

## Contract v1 Compliance

This skill emits domain hints for downstream People Intelligence:

| Contract Field | Emitted? | Location |
|---|---|---|
| `context.companyDomains[]` | Yes | Extracted from website URL |
| `context.sourceHints[]` | Yes | Embedded in draft source references |
| `context.artifactRefs[]` | Yes | List of generated draft files |

**Domain hint extraction:**
- From website URL: extract domain (e.g., `acme.com`)
- From email addresses in content: extract domains
- From mentioned URLs: extract relevant domains

Store hints in `context/domain-hints.md`:
```markdown
---
domains:
  - acme.com
  - acme.io
extracted_from:
  - website
  - pasted_content
generated: [ISO timestamp]
---

# Domain Hints

Automatically extracted domain signals for downstream use.
```

---

## Error Handling

| Error | Response |
|---|---|
| Website unreachable | "Couldn't reach [URL]. Let's continue with other inputs." |
| Folder empty | "No supported files found. Try pasting content directly." |
| Extraction yielded nothing | "Couldn't extract structured info. Let me ask you directly instead." (Fall back to guided input) |
| File write failed | "Couldn't save to [path]. Check workspace permissions." |

---

## Related Skills

- `getting-started` — Parent flow that invokes this skill (Path A)
- `seed-context` — For historical data import from integrations
- `synthesize` — For deeper analysis after context is populated

---

## Tips

1. **Quality over quantity**: Better to extract less accurately than more incorrectly
2. **Preserve user's words**: Don't over-paraphrase; their terminology matters
3. **Flag gaps explicitly**: "I couldn't find X" is valuable information
4. **Stay focused**: Extract what helps PM work, not everything possible
