packages/runtime/skills/construct-roadmap/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: construct-roadmap
description: Build and maintain product roadmaps. Use when the user wants to build, update, or plan a roadmap, do quarterly planning, or prioritize backlog.
primitives:
  - Solution
  - Market
  - Risk
work_type: delivery
category: default
creates_project: true
project_template: roadmap
intelligence:
  - context_injection
requires_briefing: false
---

# Construct Roadmap Skill

Guide users through building, updating, and communicating product roadmaps.

## When to Use

- "build roadmap"
- "update roadmap"
- "roadmap planning"
- "quarterly planning"
- "prioritize backlog"

## Workflow

### 1. Project Setup

Create the project folder and populate README.md from the template.

**Load project README template** — attempt each path in order.
1. Attempt to read `templates/projects/roadmap/project.md`
   → **Exists**: use its sections as the README structure. Do not read step 2. Stop.
   → **Missing**: continue.
2. Attempt to read `.agents/skills/construct-roadmap/templates/project.md`
   → **Exists**: use its sections. Stop.
   → **Missing**: proceed without template.

If step 1 succeeds, step 2 is irrelevant — do not consult it.

Create project:

```
projects/active/[period]-roadmap/
├── README.md          ← from template above
├── inputs/
│   ├── initiatives/
│   ├── feedback/
│   └── constraints/
├── working/
│   ├── prioritization.md
│   └── draft-roadmap.md
└── outputs/
    └── roadmap.md
```

### 2. Gather Inputs

Collect inputs for roadmap planning:

**Strategic Inputs**
- Company goals (from `goals/strategy.md`)
- Product vision
- Key metrics to move

**Demand Inputs**
- Customer feedback
- Sales requests
- Support tickets
- User research

**Supply Inputs**
- Team capacity
- Technical constraints
- Dependencies
- Tech debt priorities

**External Inputs**
- Market trends
- Competitive moves
- Regulatory requirements

### 3. Candidate Initiatives

List all potential initiatives in `inputs/initiatives/`:

```markdown
# Initiative: [Name]

**Problem/Opportunity**: [What this addresses]
**Proposed Solution**: [High-level approach]
**Target Outcome**: [What success looks like]
**Requestor/Source**: [Where this came from]

## Sizing Estimates
- **Effort**: S / M / L / XL
- **Impact**: Low / Medium / High
- **Confidence**: Low / Medium / High

## Dependencies
- [What this depends on]

## Risks
- [Key risks]

## Strategic Alignment
- [How it connects to goals]
```

### 4. Prioritization Framework

#### Quick Pre-Mortem

Use the `light_pre_mortem` pattern before committing priorities.

Default to **RICE** scoring:

| Factor | Description | Scale |
|--------|-------------|-------|
| **Reach** | How many users affected | Number |
| **Impact** | How much it moves metrics | 0.25 (minimal) to 3 (massive) |
| **Confidence** | How sure are we | 0.5 (low) to 1 (high) |
| **Effort** | Person-weeks to build | Number |

**RICE Score** = (Reach × Impact × Confidence) / Effort

Create `working/prioritization.md`:

```markdown
# Prioritization: [Period]

## Framework: RICE

| Initiative | Reach | Impact | Confidence | Effort | Score |
|------------|-------|--------|------------|--------|-------|
| [Init A] | 1000 | 2 | 0.8 | 4 | 400 |
| [Init B] | 500 | 3 | 0.5 | 2 | 375 |

## Additional Considerations
- Strategic alignment
- Dependencies
- Risk/complexity
- Customer commitments

## Prioritized List
1. [Initiative] - Score: X, Notes: [why]
2. [Initiative] - Score: Y, Notes: [why]
```

**Alternative Frameworks**:
- **MoSCoW**: Must/Should/Could/Won't
- **Value vs. Effort**: 2x2 matrix
- **Kano Model**: Basic/Performance/Delighters
- **Weighted Scoring**: Custom criteria weights

### 5. Capacity Planning

Assess team capacity:

```markdown
## Capacity: [Period]

**Team Size**: X engineers, Y designers
**Available Weeks**: [Total - PTO - overhead]
**Capacity**: ~[X] person-weeks

### Allocation
- New Features: 60%
- Tech Debt: 20%
- Bugs/Maintenance: 20%

### Constraints
- [Key constraint]
- [Key dependency]
```

### 6. Draft Roadmap

Create `working/draft-roadmap.md`:

**Timeline View**:
```markdown
# Roadmap: [Period]

## Q1 2026
### Now (In Progress)
- [Initiative]: [Status, Owner]

### Next (Committed)
- [Initiative]: [Target date]
- [Initiative]: [Target date]

### Later (Planned)
- [Initiative]
- [Initiative]

## Q2 2026
### Planned
- [Initiative]
- [Initiative]

## Future (Exploratory)
- [Initiative]
- [Initiative]
```

**Theme-Based View**:
```markdown
# Roadmap by Theme

## Theme: [User Acquisition]
- Q1: [Initiative]
- Q2: [Initiative]

## Theme: [Retention]
- Q1: [Initiative]
- Q2: [Initiative]

## Theme: [Platform]
- Q1: [Initiative]
- Q2: [Initiative]
```

### 7. Review & Refine

Before finalizing:

1. **Sanity check capacity**: Does it fit?
2. **Check dependencies**: Sequencing correct?
3. **Validate with stakeholders**: Major objections?
4. **Document trade-offs**: What we're NOT doing
5. **Risk assessment**: What could derail this?
6. **Argue the opposite**: Have someone play devil's advocate and argue against the roadmap priorities. What would we do if we couldn't build any of these? What's the contrarian view?

### 8. Final Output

Create `outputs/roadmap.md`. **Load the roadmap output template** — attempt each path in order.
1. Attempt to read `templates/outputs/construct-roadmap/roadmap.md`
   → **Exists**: use its sections as the document structure. Do not read step 2. Stop.
   → **Missing**: continue.
2. Attempt to read `.agents/skills/construct-roadmap/templates/roadmap.md`
   → **Exists**: use its sections. Stop.
   → **Missing**: proceed without template.

If step 1 succeeds, step 2 is irrelevant — do not consult it.

Populate each template section with the synthesized content from earlier steps:

```markdown
# Product Roadmap: [Period]

**Last Updated**: YYYY-MM-DD
**Owner**: [Name]
**Review Cycle**: [Monthly/Quarterly]

## Strategic Context
[Brief summary of goals this roadmap supports]

## Roadmap Overview

### Now (In Progress)
| Initiative | Owner | Status | Target |
|------------|-------|--------|--------|
| [Name] | [Team] | [Status] | [Date] |

### Next (Committed)
| Initiative | Owner | Target | Notes |
|------------|-------|--------|-------|
| [Name] | [Team] | [Quarter] | |

### Later (Planned)
| Initiative | Target | Confidence |
|------------|--------|------------|
| [Name] | [Quarter] | Medium |

### Future (Exploratory)
- [Initiative]
- [Initiative]

## Key Dependencies
- [Dependency and impact]

## Risks & Mitigations
| Risk | Impact | Mitigation |
|------|--------|------------|
| [Risk] | [High/Med/Low] | [Plan] |

## What We're NOT Doing
- [Initiative]: [Why deprioritized]

## Change Log
- YYYY-MM-DD: [Change made]
```

### 9. Confirm and Close

Before closing, ask: "How could we accomplish this in half the time?" There's always a way to ship faster—challenge the team to find it.

### 10. Context Update

After finalizing:

1. Consider updating `goals/strategy.md` if roadmap reflects strategic shifts
2. Log major prioritization decisions to `.arete/memory/items/decisions.md`
3. Set calendar for roadmap review

## Roadmap Best Practices

- **Outcomes over outputs**: Frame around problems, not features
- **Appropriate precision**: Detailed near-term, fuzzy long-term
- **Living document**: Update regularly, note changes
- **Communication tool**: Tailor for audience
- **Not a commitment**: Plans change, that's okay

## Anti-patterns

Common mistakes to avoid:

- **Ruthless prioritization**: Every yes is a no to something else. Say no to good ideas to say yes to great ones. "Everything is important" means nothing is.

Commit message:

feat: arete template resolve/list/view CLI + unified override paths (Decision 1+2)
Decision 1 — Unified workspace override paths:
All template overrides now at templates/outputs/{skill-id}/{variant}.md.
Replaces the prior varied paths (templates/meeting-agendas/, templates/plans/,
templates/projects/) with one consistent pattern across all skills.

Decision 2 — CLI resolver replaces agent-interpreted prose:
arete template resolve --skill <id> --variant <name>
Returns the resolved template content (workspace override > skill default).
SKILL.md instructions collapse from 10-line prose flowcharts to one command.

Core (packages/core):
- TEMPLATE_REGISTRY: known skill/variant pairs for validation + discovery
- resolveTemplateContent(): resolve path + read content in one call
- Both exported from utils/index.ts

CLI (packages/cli):
- template resolve: resolve + print template content (or --path for path only)
- template list: all skills/variants with hasOverride status
- template view: view resolved content with source annotation
- Full rewrite of template.ts; drops stale .arete/ reference

Runtime (packages/runtime):
- 9 SKILL.md files: all template load instructions replaced with arete template resolve
- PATTERNS.md: Template Resolution updated to document CLI approach
- templates/README.md: unified override paths, CLI-based copy-paste prompts
- GUIDE.md: quick-reference table updated

Tests:
- TEMPLATE_REGISTRY: 4 unit tests (structure, completeness, variants)
- resolveTemplateContent: 3 unit tests (null, skill-local, override precedence)
- template resolve CLI: 6 tests (skill-local, override, --path, unknown skill/variant)
- template list CLI: 2 tests (lists all, detects hasOverride)
- template view CLI: 2 tests (returns content, errors for unknown skill)

typecheck ✓ | npm test 268/268 pass ✓ | integration smoke 6/6 pass ✓

packages/runtime/skills/construct-roadmap/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: construct-roadmap
description: Build and maintain product roadmaps. Use when the user wants to build, update, or plan a roadmap, do quarterly planning, or prioritize backlog.
primitives:
  - Solution
  - Market
  - Risk
work_type: delivery
category: default
creates_project: true
project_template: roadmap
intelligence:
  - context_injection
requires_briefing: false
---

# Construct Roadmap Skill

Guide users through building, updating, and communicating product roadmaps.

## When to Use

- "build roadmap"
- "update roadmap"
- "roadmap planning"
- "quarterly planning"
- "prioritize backlog"

## Workflow

### 1. Project Setup

Create the project folder and populate README.md from the template.

**Load project README template** — run this command and use its output as the README structure. Do not add sections from elsewhere:
```
arete template resolve --skill construct-roadmap --variant project
```

Create project:

```
projects/active/[period]-roadmap/
├── README.md          ← from template above
├── inputs/
│   ├── initiatives/
│   ├── feedback/
│   └── constraints/
├── working/
│   ├── prioritization.md
│   └── draft-roadmap.md
└── outputs/
    └── roadmap.md
```

### 2. Gather Inputs

Collect inputs for roadmap planning:

**Strategic Inputs**
- Company goals (from `goals/strategy.md`)
- Product vision
- Key metrics to move

**Demand Inputs**
- Customer feedback
- Sales requests
- Support tickets
- User research

**Supply Inputs**
- Team capacity
- Technical constraints
- Dependencies
- Tech debt priorities

**External Inputs**
- Market trends
- Competitive moves
- Regulatory requirements

### 3. Candidate Initiatives

List all potential initiatives in `inputs/initiatives/`:

```markdown
# Initiative: [Name]

**Problem/Opportunity**: [What this addresses]
**Proposed Solution**: [High-level approach]
**Target Outcome**: [What success looks like]
**Requestor/Source**: [Where this came from]

## Sizing Estimates
- **Effort**: S / M / L / XL
- **Impact**: Low / Medium / High
- **Confidence**: Low / Medium / High

## Dependencies
- [What this depends on]

## Risks
- [Key risks]

## Strategic Alignment
- [How it connects to goals]
```

### 4. Prioritization Framework

#### Quick Pre-Mortem

Use the `light_pre_mortem` pattern before committing priorities.

Default to **RICE** scoring:

| Factor | Description | Scale |
|--------|-------------|-------|
| **Reach** | How many users affected | Number |
| **Impact** | How much it moves metrics | 0.25 (minimal) to 3 (massive) |
| **Confidence** | How sure are we | 0.5 (low) to 1 (high) |
| **Effort** | Person-weeks to build | Number |

**RICE Score** = (Reach × Impact × Confidence) / Effort

Create `working/prioritization.md`:

```markdown
# Prioritization: [Period]

## Framework: RICE

| Initiative | Reach | Impact | Confidence | Effort | Score |
|------------|-------|--------|------------|--------|-------|
| [Init A] | 1000 | 2 | 0.8 | 4 | 400 |
| [Init B] | 500 | 3 | 0.5 | 2 | 375 |

## Additional Considerations
- Strategic alignment
- Dependencies
- Risk/complexity
- Customer commitments

## Prioritized List
1. [Initiative] - Score: X, Notes: [why]
2. [Initiative] - Score: Y, Notes: [why]
```

**Alternative Frameworks**:
- **MoSCoW**: Must/Should/Could/Won't
- **Value vs. Effort**: 2x2 matrix
- **Kano Model**: Basic/Performance/Delighters
- **Weighted Scoring**: Custom criteria weights

### 5. Capacity Planning

Assess team capacity:

```markdown
## Capacity: [Period]

**Team Size**: X engineers, Y designers
**Available Weeks**: [Total - PTO - overhead]
**Capacity**: ~[X] person-weeks

### Allocation
- New Features: 60%
- Tech Debt: 20%
- Bugs/Maintenance: 20%

### Constraints
- [Key constraint]
- [Key dependency]
```

### 6. Draft Roadmap

Create `working/draft-roadmap.md`:

**Timeline View**:
```markdown
# Roadmap: [Period]

## Q1 2026
### Now (In Progress)
- [Initiative]: [Status, Owner]

### Next (Committed)
- [Initiative]: [Target date]
- [Initiative]: [Target date]

### Later (Planned)
- [Initiative]
- [Initiative]

## Q2 2026
### Planned
- [Initiative]
- [Initiative]

## Future (Exploratory)
- [Initiative]
- [Initiative]
```

**Theme-Based View**:
```markdown
# Roadmap by Theme

## Theme: [User Acquisition]
- Q1: [Initiative]
- Q2: [Initiative]

## Theme: [Retention]
- Q1: [Initiative]
- Q2: [Initiative]

## Theme: [Platform]
- Q1: [Initiative]
- Q2: [Initiative]
```

### 7. Review & Refine

Before finalizing:

1. **Sanity check capacity**: Does it fit?
2. **Check dependencies**: Sequencing correct?
3. **Validate with stakeholders**: Major objections?
4. **Document trade-offs**: What we're NOT doing
5. **Risk assessment**: What could derail this?
6. **Argue the opposite**: Have someone play devil's advocate and argue against the roadmap priorities. What would we do if we couldn't build any of these? What's the contrarian view?

### 8. Final Output

Create `outputs/roadmap.md`. **Load the roadmap output template** — run this command and use its output as the document structure. Do not add sections from elsewhere:
```
arete template resolve --skill construct-roadmap --variant roadmap
```
Populate each section with the synthesized content from earlier steps:

```markdown
# Product Roadmap: [Period]

**Last Updated**: YYYY-MM-DD
**Owner**: [Name]
**Review Cycle**: [Monthly/Quarterly]

## Strategic Context
[Brief summary of goals this roadmap supports]

## Roadmap Overview

### Now (In Progress)
| Initiative | Owner | Status | Target |
|------------|-------|--------|--------|
| [Name] | [Team] | [Status] | [Date] |

### Next (Committed)
| Initiative | Owner | Target | Notes |
|------------|-------|--------|-------|
| [Name] | [Team] | [Quarter] | |

### Later (Planned)
| Initiative | Target | Confidence |
|------------|--------|------------|
| [Name] | [Quarter] | Medium |

### Future (Exploratory)
- [Initiative]
- [Initiative]

## Key Dependencies
- [Dependency and impact]

## Risks & Mitigations
| Risk | Impact | Mitigation |
|------|--------|------------|
| [Risk] | [High/Med/Low] | [Plan] |

## What We're NOT Doing
- [Initiative]: [Why deprioritized]

## Change Log
- YYYY-MM-DD: [Change made]
```

### 9. Confirm and Close

Before closing, ask: "How could we accomplish this in half the time?" There's always a way to ship faster—challenge the team to find it.

### 10. Context Update

After finalizing:

1. Consider updating `goals/strategy.md` if roadmap reflects strategic shifts
2. Log major prioritization decisions to `.arete/memory/items/decisions.md`
3. Set calendar for roadmap review

## Roadmap Best Practices

- **Outcomes over outputs**: Frame around problems, not features
- **Appropriate precision**: Detailed near-term, fuzzy long-term
- **Living document**: Update regularly, note changes
- **Communication tool**: Tailor for audience
- **Not a commitment**: Plans change, that's okay

## Anti-patterns

Common mistakes to avoid:

- **Ruthless prioritization**: Every yes is a no to something else. Say no to good ideas to say yes to great ones. "Everything is important" means nothing is.
